Welcome church.
How's it going this afternoon?
Doing well.
Awesome.
If you guys don't know me, my name is James Crawford.
I'm one of the pastors on staff here.
I'm blessed to be here with you today.
Pastor Micah had a run real quick, but if you didn't have the ability to be here during the 9-11, I definitely recommend you guys go back and listen to his sermon specifically during this Lent season as he taught on
I was going to say tithing, but fasting specifically.
And just what it means to biblically fast.
It's just a really excellent word.
But today we're going to be teaching on something different.
Rather I am going to be teaching and you'll be sitting and listening and hopefully receiving.
We'll see what the Lord does, but I'm thankful to be here.
I've been gone for a couple months.
As always, we are gonna be passing out Bibles in the beginning of the service.
So if you guys need a Bible, please raise your hand.
These lovely people will be handing them out for you.
We are gonna be in the Word today in probably a familiar passage, but maybe with some new insight that the Lord had given me.
Today we're gonna be in, if you guys are following along in our Anchored Reading series, which is our two year Bible reading plan.
We're in the book of Mark right now in the New Testament.
So today we're gonna be in Mark chapter five, Mark chapter five.
And we will be starting in verse 25.
But it's been a really sweet season for me for those of you guys that don't know me.
I've been part of Godspeak for a long time, over 10 years now.
And just really blessed by this ministry and the ups and downs and the craziness and the trials and the tribulations, but also what God has done in and through this place.
And just thankful that you guys are here today.
And in this past season, my wife gave birth to our first son.
Yeah, praise the Lord.
Praise the Lord, yeah.
Really, really excited.
So I'm a new father.
He's about 10 weeks old, 11 weeks old now.
I know like when you first have a newborn you start counting everything in weeks and days and everyone's like, how many months is that?
I don't know.
But he's almost three months and we're just really blessed, really not able to stay awake.
Very often I'm not getting a lot of sleep.
He actually does sleep really well.
We are really blessed by this child.
Super big answer to prayer.
My wife and I are gonna be celebrating 10 years of marriage this year and so God is faithful.
He's so faithful.
And for what it means to myself and Cali, it's just beyond words.
And you don't know until you know.
For those of you guys that have kids, I mean, it's just inexplicable.
And to be a part of that process, to be in the living room, to see the miracle of childbirth, I'm so glad I personally didn't have to go through that, but I'm so thankful for my wife and her strength and man, just she is a rock star.
And you know what's really done?
in this season is, I have one child right now and I think like that is like literally like there's Jesus and my child.
Like that's like literally the focus and the priority.
Of course my wife is also my priority, but like everything changes.
They always tell you that everything's gonna change when you have a kid, but it really has and nothing else matters.
I'm like take my car, take my house, take my horses.
I don't do whatever.
Like it's just like the kid is all that matters in this moment.
And you know what's so crazy about Pastor Micah, who happens to be younger than I am?
He has seven kids.
Seven.
So he has seven times the responsibility that I have.
I just have a new appreciation for him, not only as my pastor and my brother-in-law, but just as a father.
And I don't know how he just doesn't live on caffeine 24-7.
But man, it is a calling.
It truly is.
And so I always want to give honor where honor is due.
And that's to Pastor Micah and his anointing and his calling to be the head of this church.
And to juggle all these things, but almost do it seamlessly.
It's just like there's obvious presence of the Lord's hand on his life.
And so just rush a shirt.
If you call this place your home, you're under good shepherding.
Amen, amen.
So today, before we get into the word, something that
I forgot to do last night, but I want to pray over the tithe and offering.
Something that we don't pass around baskets, it's not something we focus on, we just give it to the Lord.
Whatever the Lord puts on your heart, that is between you and Jesus and we recognize it as an act of worship.
Amen.
If you want to join me in that prayer, heavenly Father, thank you so much for this beautiful day in Southern California.
Thank you for what you're doing in and through this church and your body Lord more specifically and every single person in this room Lord we just take this time to perfectly consider just what it means to tie then come before you with our finances and for it not to be just the fringe but rather
to be the first fruits of what you've blessed us with and we want to do so in such a way that honors you and it's not a have to it's a get to and so we recognize this as an act of worship and so we love you we trust you and we're thankful for just the provision you've given us in all of our lives and all these things we pray amen amen so today we're going to be jumping into
book of Mark and we're going to be in chapter five and we're going to be talking about a story that most of you guys may know but it's about the woman with the issue of blood who's been bleeding for 12 years.
Before we read it I wanted to just give you a little bit of context.
Jesus is kind of like on this
this point in his ministry at this point where he's healing a lot.
He's doing a lot of things.
He's moving and shaking.
He's no longer in hiding.
He's no longer getting away from the crowds.
He's pressing into what he knows he needs to do.
And so we kind of pick up chapter five where he's across the sea of Galilee with the Gentiles and there's a demoniac that comes out and raving lunatic.
And Jesus says, who are you?
What is your name?
And it's that we are legion, we are many.
They're scared and he casts them into the swine and the swine, all those pigs go over the side and cause they can't create.
They can only destroy.
And so there's so much, there's so much rich.
Like this is why I love scripture because you can just take any portion and just like teach out of it.
But I just want to give you context.
Like Jesus is like, he's exercising demons.
He's healing people.
He goes back across.
with his disciples back across the Sea of Galilee and he is met by a large crowd.
And one of the main leaders in the synagogue, his name is Jairus, he comes before Jesus amongst the crowd.
He said, Jesus, will you please come and help me?
Would you please come and help me?
My daughter is on the verge of death.
I just need you to come and lay hands on my daughter.
And Jesus agrees to.
So he's in the midst of this giant crowd and this basically,
kind of pastor of this day comes before him, Jesus, would you just come and just lay hands on my daughter?
And in the midst of him on mission, in the midst of him agreeing to go and lay hands on his daughter, knowing what he's going to find, knowing that he's gonna heal this girl, knowing that they're gonna mock him when he gets there, he actually says,
This girl is not sleeping, and all these people are gathered around these professional mourners, and they're saying, this girl is already dead, now we're weeping.
He said, no, no, no, she's not dead, she's just sleeping, and they mock him.
So Jesus knows what he's going to do, but in the midst of that, in the midst of being on mission, he's met by someone else, and that's what we're gonna pick up today.
So we're gonna be in Mark chapter five, verses 25.
If you guys wanna join me in standing for the reading of the Word,
Again, Mark chapter five, verse 25, all the way through 34.
It says, now a certain woman had a flow of blood for 12 years and suffered many things from many physicians.
She had spent all that she had and was no better, but rather grew worse.
And what you heard about Jesus, she came behind him in the crowd and touched his garment.
for she said, if I only may touch his clothes, I shall be made well.
If I shall only touch his clothes, I will be made well.
Immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction and Jesus immediately knowing in himself that power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, who touched my clothes?
Verse 31, but his disciples said to him, you see the multitude thronging you, surrounding you, touching you, and you say, who touched me?
And he looked around to see who had done this thing, but the woman fearing and trembling knowing what had happened to her came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth.
And he said to her daughter, your faith has made you well.
Go in peace and be healed of your affliction.
That's our passage today.
Let's pray over it.
Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the gift of your word.
Thank you that it's living, it's breathing, it's constantly teaching us.
Even in the midst of my studying, you were ministering to my heart and showing me something new, a fulfillment of prophecy through this verse that I've read dozens and dozens of times.
I'm just so thankful for who you are and what you've done for us, Lord, that you meet us exactly where we're at.
And you offer something, something more
profound and physical healing, but a spiritual one.
And so, Father, we rest underneath your covering today.
We pray that you would speak openly and freely, move my flesh out of the way and do your thing.
We love you, Lord, in all these things we pray.
Amen.
You guys can be seated.
So there's a woman, verse 25, 12 years.
It's a long time.
So those of you guys have had a chronic condition or suffered from something 12 years is a long time.
Maybe some of you have suffered for things even longer than that.
But what we see kind of contextually and historically is that this is a permanence.
This is considered a permanence specifically by the doctors and the culture.
It's not a temporary suffering.
So she is living in constant suffering.
And by suffering, it's not just a physical one, but it's a communal one.
It's a cultural one.
So you had a Levitical law, Leviticus 15, she was ceremonially unclean.
She was socially isolated, she wasn't allowed into the temple, she was religiously excluded.
And not only that, everything that she touched became unclean.
So if you passed by her in the market and you brushed up against her, you were now considered unclean and you yourself would have to go into the temple and go through the ritual of becoming clean again.
So it's like there's this bubble around her everywhere she goes.
She's lacking human connection.
She's lacking physical touch.
During this time, it would have been okay by law, and this would be rabbinic law, that if she had been married, there was now a right for her to be divorced from because of her condition.
Because there was a heavy weight with the ability to conceive.
There was a heavy weight specifically with women and their ability to procreate.
And if they no longer had that ability, then they were lacking in worth.
Not saying this is right.
I'm just giving you context.
I'm giving you an understanding.
She was isolated.
She was alone.
She was broken.
And she was somewhat wealthy.
We don't know exactly where her wealth came from, but she had the ability to see doctors, right?
So she actually exhausted all of her expenses, all of her wealth and drained it in seeking a solution, seeking something that the world just wasn't able to provide.
The physicians said, there is no hope for you.
There's nothing that we can do.
So what did she find herself?
Where did she find herself?
She found herself in a hopeless situation.
She was hurting, isolated, lacking provision.
lacking a covering, unable to worship, unable to go into the temple.
She's gonna have touch.
Man, could you imagine not being able to hug someone, not being able to shake someone's hand, not being able to be in close proximity with someone for 12 years?
Man.
And not only that, we see historically,
what they thought during this time if you suffered from a consistent condition, a permanent condition like this one, it was actually a result of your sin.
Oh, you did something, God is judging you, you are now suffering because you deserve it.
Man, that's brutal.
And culturally, they were letting this, right?
And so we find this woman,
in desperate need of the Savior.
And so we see in chapter or verse 27 rather when she heard about Jesus, she came behind him in the crowd, in the crowd.
So she's risking something here.
She's touching people.
She knows what the consequences might be.
And she touched his garment.
First she said, if I only may touch his clothes, I shall be made well.
We know this verse, right?
The hem of his garment.
We've heard this time and time again.
We have a beautiful ministry here at God's be called the hem of his garment that specifically ministers to women that have been through the process of abortion.
And we want to give them healing.
We want to give them understanding.
We want to give them a community where they don't feel isolated, where they don't feel like they need to be outside of the church, but rather we welcome you in and saying, go and sin no more, right?
That there's healing in Christ, our Savior, that there's not shame to be found here, but rather freedom.
And it's hard.
Because even in the culture of Christianity within the church, if you've had abortion, there's a weight that you probably would carry around with you.
And so it's important to have these ministries that we speak to those individuals, we speak to the needs of the people, we speak to the brokenhearted, we speak to the isolated, the ones that think that they have no place and have no home.
And so you do have a home and you do have a place and you do have a savior.
And he wants to heal you and he wants to set you free.
But today I wanna focus on this word, garment, because it's not, and this is what I thought for the longest time, it's just his outer cloak.
If I could just,
touch his coat.
If I could just touch something in the midst of this, this specific place, but what it actually alludes to is that she was touching a very specific place on his coat, which is actually a fulfillment of Messianic prophecy.
I'm going to introduce you to a couple words today.
One is khanath and one is sitsit.
So this word sitsit comes from Numbers 15.
It says, speak to the children of Israel and tell them to make tassels on the corners of their garment throughout the generations to put blue thread on the tassels of the corners.
And there's five knots, which represents the books of the Bible, the Torah.
And there's four spaces in between these knots, which is representative Yahweh.
We see YH, WH, which is representative of Yahweh.
We see these prayer shawls that you're probably familiar with, but it was very commonplace.
It was very culturally the norm for men to specifically wear these outer layers, these outer cloaks.
But where the sitsit was connected was to a place called the Knaf, which was the edge, the corner of the garment.
And what we see is this word Knaf,
actually has multiple meanings in the Hebrew.
We recognize that the New Testament is written in Greek and the Old Testament in Hebrew.
And so this word, Knaf, translates into this word, which we find in the New Testament, but Knaf has multiple meanings in the Old Testament.
It means edge, it means corner, but it also means wing.
It also means wing, or wings.
You see how it's a covering as Christ himself called himself a hen to the chicks, right?
They covered his chicks with his wings, there's a covering, there's a protection.
Psalm 57.1, multiple Psalms, but be merciful to me, oh God, be merciful to me for my soul trusts in you and in the shadow of your wings, in the shadow of your canaphe, I will make my refuge.
This is David talking until these calamities have passed by.
And why this is relevant, maybe you think I'm off my rocker, or this is some fringe speculation.
This word, Knauf, also comes up later in First Samuel, and we think of and remember this story where David is being chased by King Saul, and he's with his men in the cave, right?
And what does King Saul need to do?
He needs to relieve himself.
He needs to go to the restroom.
David's mighty men are telling him, this is your chance, God has provided you.
In your hand, he has provided King Saul to slay him.
And what does David do instead?
He goes and he cuts a corner of Saul's robe.
What we see in Hebrew is that he goes in and he cuts his canof.
He cuts the sits away from King Saul.
And what this means is that this is tied directly
to his anointing as king.
This is tied directly to the covenant, the covering, his position as king.
And so when we read the verse, now it happened afterwards that David's heart was troubled him because he had cut Saul's robe.
We know this passage, but I thought for the longest time, I was just like, well, anything belonging to the king,
I didn't want to, I recognized that Saul is your anointed Lord.
And so he felt guilt, right?
He felt that weight.
Prior to this, there was actually a moment where there's interaction with King Saul and the prophet Samuel.
And he is frustrated.
Samuel calls King Saul out for his disobedience to God.
And as he's reaching out, he tries to grab Samuel and he tears away his cloak.
He tears away his conoff.
And there's this separation.
And Samuel says, because of this, this kingdom has been separated from you, has been torn from you.
So this is the same word, this conoff.
So it's prophetic in that way.
And then David ends up cutting it away, feeling guilty about it.
What does this have to do with this story?
And you probably have an understanding.
of where I'm going, but there is a messianic prophecy at a last book in the Old Testament out of Malachi, Malachi 4-2.
It says, but to you who fear my name, the son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his wings.
But to you who fear my name, the son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his connoff, in his covering.
The final writings of this period by this prophet, he said that the son of David, the Messiah will come with healing in his wings.
So much so that the Hebrew rabbis and mystics from this point forward, they said that there's special healing powers in the sitsits that were attached to the corners.
of not only the Messiah's Rose, but some actually elongated their sitsits, their kanofs, so that they would appear to have that messianic quality of having the capability of healing.
It's interesting, right?
So we go back to verse 27.
And when she heard about Jesus, this woman who had been isolated, who was broken, who was torn from society,
who held this weight of sin and desperation.
She came to him in the crowd and touched his canof.
For he said, if I only may touch his clothes, I shall be made.
Wow.
She moves towards him.
She believes that Jesus is who he says he is.
She's heard about this, man.
And she thinks to herself, could this be the Messiah?
It wasn't some off the cuff chance that she was just reaching for anything that she could reach.
She was reaching for something specific.
If I could only get to the Messiah's wings.
If I could only get to the Messiah's can of.
Those tassels symbolize a covenant identity
They represented a submission to God's authority.
In other words, what she was doing was providing her hope in her messiah.
She was surrendering her life.
And it connects directly to this prophecy.
And for the very first time, someone is healed by the touching of a canal for the wings.
What happens?
Verse 29, immediately the fountain of blood was dried up and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction.
This is immediately.
There wasn't a delay, there wasn't a process, there wasn't a ritual.
She didn't have to go into the temple.
She was healed.
This man is who he said he is.
He is the savior of the world.
The king had come.
and Jesus immediately knowing in himself that the power had gone out of him.
He turned around to the crowd and said, who touched my clothes?
This word is dynamus or dunamis, this divine power, this is the word where we get the word dynamite from, out of the Greek, and the power flowed from Christ and revealed his authority.
You see,
When David cut Saul's connoisseur, it symbolized the removal of Saul's authority.
And yet here, when we see a broken, desperate woman touching, Jesus' connoisseur, it revealed his authority.
Saul's connoisseur was representing of an ending kingdom, and Jesus' connoisseur was revealing an eternal one.
Maybe you think this is some one-off, maybe you think this is some fringe, kinda gray area,
What happens again later?
Mark six, 56, whenever he entered into the village and the cities or in the country, they laid the sick in the marketplace and begged him that they might just touch the hem of his garment.
And as many as touched him were made well again and again and again and again and again, people were healed through this messianic prophecy, the son of righteousness.
It would find healing in his wings.
But Jesus says, who touched my clothes?
Who touched my knave?
But this is what's so awesome about our Savior and this is why I love this passage so much is that Jesus knew exactly who touched him.
Jesus knew exactly where that healing had gone.
Jesus knew that that woman
had been healed of her infirmity.
And he wasn't seeking a confession.
He wasn't seeking a confession.
He was seeking something else.
A woman feared, fearing and trembling and told him the whole truth.
Came down and fell before him.
laid herself bare.
She was afraid for what she had done.
She thought in some way because she had been unclean, that she had some way damaged him.
She had some way made him unclean in that moment.
Ceremonially, she didn't know what to think.
But instead of condemnation, instead of being cast out, get away from me, you can't believe you touched me, she found grace.
She found restitution.
She was made whole.
And guess what guys?
It wasn't just in a physical way.
It was in a spiritual capacity.
And it was also into the entirety of her town.
Back into society.
Verse 34.
What does he call her?
He calls her daughter.
something that just hit me like a pile of bricks, being a father for the first time, and knowing the heart of my savior, the compassion he had for this woman can't help but see my son.
I would do anything for my son.
I would gladly lay down my life without a second thought for my son.
You know what's so cool about this passage, specifically daughter here,
It is the only place in the entirety of scripture that we see Jesus call someone daughter.
It is the only place that we see this word daughter in the entirety of the New Testament.
He says, this one is mine.
She is part of my family.
She has restored back into society.
He could have let her be healed and disappear into the crowd to never talk to her again, but he decided to bring her to the front to restore her, to heal her, to provide restoration.
Jesus did something that only he could do.
He made the unclean clean.
You can't taint Jesus.
There's no one that's too far gone.
There's no wickedness that he cannot overcome.
That's our savior, that's our king, that's the creator of the universe.
How does he call us?
He calls us by our name.
He says son, he says daughter.
You have a covering now.
You have protection now.
You have identity now.
And I love this because Jesus is on mission.
He's going about his business.
He's going to heal Jairus' daughter.
And in the midst of him doing something else, someone reaches out in faith to receive healing.
Christ is never too busy for us.
Let that be that realization.
There's no prayer that is too small to bring before our Savior, to bring before our God.
God wants to listen to us.
He wants relationship with us.
Recognize that Jesus isn't in a hurry.
His timing is his timing.
The power was never in the canaphe.
The power was in the king who wore it.
What the Lord spoke to me about this passage for those that you find yourself in the room to be a believer is that there were many people in that moment that were close to Jesus.
But there was only one person in that moment that was surrendered.
It's entirely possible for us to walk with Jesus and slowly drift from surrender to being familiar.
for us to be complacent in a casual relationship, to know his words, to sing the songs, to be in the crowd.
And somewhere along the line we stop reaching to him for dependence.
It's not necessarily because we reject him, but being familiar can dampen a relationship, can replace surrender,
Those of you guys that have been married for a long time, you stop dating each other, what happens?
Stop being intentional with each other, what happens?
Plateaus, destroys, divorces a pandemic in our society because people get bored.
People stop trying, they stop caring, and it doesn't happen overnight, it just, we become complacent.
Guys the same can happen with our relationship with Jesus.
Not saying that you can be grasped out of his hand but don't be complacent.
Don't be complacent in your relationship with Jesus.
Stop bringing him or you need to start bringing him your weaknesses.
Start bringing him your desperation.
Start bringing him areas that we think that we can manage on our own.
It's like we shelve him.
We put them behind glass, break only in case of emergency.
In case there's a fire, in case there's a tragedy, in case there's a bad diagnostic from the doctor or diagnostic, not a car.
This convicted me because I know that in my sin and in my flesh I can become comfortable around my Savior.
This woman reminds us of something that we must never forget.
We never outgrow our need to reach for Jesus.
It's not just that salvation.
It's not just in the moments of emergency, but every day in surrender.
To pick up our cross daily means to die to ourself, to surrender under Jesus' plan.
We can't just be in close proximity.
We can't just attend church and be onlookers in a crowd and forget the need to reach for Jesus.
Here's the grace in this.
Jesus did not rebuke her for reaching, but he honored her faith.
If you find yourself today being in a place of plateau, of being, maybe numb,
You have forgotten what it means to rely on your Savior.
You will never be met with dismissal.
You will never be met with shame.
You will not be rebuked.
But offer something that we don't deserve, which is grace.
Lord, I still need you.
areas that you think that you can carry on your own, the areas you think that you don't need to trust him with anymore.
Imitation is still the same today as it was on the day of your salvation.
Reach for him.
Remember what it was like to need him.
Guys,
The healing in the story is not the greatest miracle.
Salvation is.
Every single person that we find in the New Testament that was healed by Christ, still died.
They didn't live forever.
They didn't become immortal so there was a purpose in their healing.
Even beyond mercy.
It was testimony to testify of what he had done.
And if you find yourself in a place where you are in need of healing and you actually receive that healing by the grace of God, don't stop talking about it.
Don't stop sharing to people what God has done in and through your life.
Be reminded every single day that we are in a desperate need of Jesus.
The greatest testimony is not that he restored your body.
The greatest testimony is that he has redeemed your soul.
The power was never in the connoff.
The power was and still is in the King who wore it.
Amen?
Let's pray.
Grace's father, thank you so much for this day, Lord.
Thank you for what you're doing in our lives, the things that we need to be reminded of, Jesus.
We need to be reminded sometimes that we need you.
Unfortunately in this life and for those in the room that find themselves in a dire situation or in desperate need of healing, I pray that they would be to be as bold as to come up for prayer.
That we would be able to lay hands on them.
That we would go boldly into your throne room of grace and healing and that you would hear us.
You give us those keys.
You give us that access, Lord.
You give us the ability to talk to you and you wouldn't just shoe us off.
You wouldn't just ignore us.
You would treat us as a father unto his child and you would bend your ear to us.
Father, we want your will to be done in our lives.
But Father, give us the opportunity to bring your glory through our lives.
And that comes through surrender.
That comes through dependence.
So Father tonight, I rather this afternoon, for everyone in this room, I just pray grace and peace over their lives.
A recognition and the ability, maybe the courage to take an accounting of where they are in their relationship with you.
Have they been on autopilot for too long?
And do they need to?
Start remembering what it means to reach out.
Give them the courage, give them the strength, myself included.
Convict us, guide us, strengthen us, give us peace.
Thank you so much for saving us and sending yourself.
We love you Jesus and all these things we pray.
Amen.